---
layout: page-fullwidth
title:  "Documented Data File"
subheadline:  "Because reading data should be the easy part..."
teaser: "Independent Project"
categories:
    - projects
header:
   title: Documented Data File
   background-color: "#EFC94C;"
   image_fullwidth: "header_homepage_13.jpg"
---

You'd think that once you've collected and analyzed data, saving and re-reading it would be the easy part. For many types of data such as images, documents, or executables, it <i>is</i> the easy part. So why is it so complicated for general data, such as a list of numbers?

You're probably thinking this is a solved problem. "There are plenty of formats! CSV, NPY, PKL, HD5, need I go on?". These formats all have their merits. Some are very effient at serializing the data, importing data to and from a specific programming language, or being universally readable. However, when a project or data changes hands, be it to a collaborator or a new generation of researchers, having the data be <i>self evident</i> is critical. Although there are ways to work around this with established formats, such as adding headers in CSVs, this is not standardized and required a customized import system for each format, which is cumbersome and time consuming. This is where DDF comes in.

The purpose of DDF file format is to provide a way to save data that is:
1. *Human Readable:* Saves data in plain text, so you can read or create this file type with just a text editor, should the need arise. This also makes creating functions for reading and writing DDF files for your programming language of choice much easier than if it were a binary standard. It uses a syntax that is designed to prioritize human-readability of file size.
2. *Self-Evident:* The data saved in DDF are not just associated with a variable name, but comments can be provided for each variable so that the data can be understood on their own. The format also encourages users to provide a description for the whole file through the use of a header paragraph.




